Timecode Notes
Chris Ahlstrom
2016-02-09 to 2016-02-09

Some of these notes are taken from:

   http://manual.ardour.org/synchronization/

There are four common timecode formats:

   -  LTC. A generator of linear timecode, with a configurable output level.
      LTC (Linear Time Code) is a Manchester encoded, frequency modulated
      signal that carries both clock and time. It is possible to extract
      absolute position data and speed from it.
   -  MTC. A generator of MIDI timecode.  MTC is limited to 24, 25, 29.97
      and 30 fps.
   -  MIDI Clock. A generator of tempo-based time. The absolute reference
      point is expressed as beats-per-minute and Bar, Beat and Tick. There
      is no concept of sample-locking for MIDI clock signals. An application
      needs to vari-speed if necessary to chase the incoming signal.
   -  JACK-transport. JACK-transport cannot be generated. Jack itself is
      always synced to its own cycle and cannot do varispeed — it will always
      be synced to a hardware clock or another JACK master.

An application can generate timecode and thus act as timecode master,
providing timecode information to other applications. An application can
also be slaved to some external source in which case the playhead follows
the incoming timecode.  Combining the timecode slave and generator modes,
An application can also translate timecode. e.g create LTC timecode from
incoming MTC.

JACK transport slaves can control the JACK transport states
(stopped/rolling).  It does not support offset and does not support
vari-speed.  JACK transport also includes temp-based-time information in
Bar:Beats:Ticks (BBT) and beats-per-minute. However, only one JACK
application can provide this information at a given time.  An application
can be configured to act as a translator from timecode to BBT.

JACK provides clock synchronization and is not concerned with time code
(this is not entirely true, more on jack-transport later). On the software
side, jackd provides sample-accurate synchronization between all JACK
applications. On the hardware side, JACK uses the clock of the
audio-interface. Synchronization of multiple interfaces requires hardware
support to sync the clocks. If two interfaces run at different clocks the
only way to align the signals is via re-sampling (SRC - Sample Rate
Conversion), which is expensive in terms of CPU usage and may
decreases fidelity if done incorrectly.

Related Concepts:

   Latency compensation
   Chasing (Synchronization)

https://github.com/hydrogen-music/hydrogen/issues/190

   That works fine, but i noticed that when i play around with the tempo (in
   hydrogen) i start to get an offset between hydrogen and the synth
   the tempo on the synth still changes when i change tempo in hydrogen, but
   there is an offset that seems to grow

   i tried to find an easy way to reproduce this without the need for a
   hardware synth and i think i was able to do that with this config :

   1) start jack, open hydrogen
   2) create a pattern with 4 beats on the 1,2,3 and 4 (i used 'click' from
      the gmkit)
   3) use this pattern to create a 4-bar song
   4) set hydrogen in (looped) song mode and set a tempo change on bar1
(120) and one on bar 3 (200)
   5) enable jack transport AND jack master

   6) open a second instance of hydrogen
   7) create a pattern with 4 beats on the 1,2,3 and 4 (here i used 'cowbel'
      from the gmkit, so it is easy to hear the difference between the 2
      hydrogen instances)
   8) use this pattern to create a 4-bar song
   9) set hydro to song mode (looped)
   10) enable jack transport (NOT master)

   11) on the first hydrogen instance press stop (to make sure that the
      transport position is at 'position 0')
   12) on the first hydrogen instance press play

   what i expect to see :
   both hydrogen instances play in perfect sync

   what i see instead :
   after the first tempo change both hydrogen instances are out of sync

   i also did this extra test with jack_transport
   1) make sure that 'transport master ' is disabled on both hydrogen instances
   2) in a terminal start jack_transport
   3) make it master by typing 'master'
   4) set a tempo : 'tempo 120'
   5) start transport : 'play'
   6) while playing change the tempo : 'tempo 200'
   7) while playing change the tempo : 'tempo 120'

   in this setup both hydrogen instances are in perfect sync, so it seems to
   be an issue with hydrogen as master

