Chris Ahlstrom
(GEnie: KICKAHA [try here first!];  Compuserve: [73340,26])
9950 Topanga Canyon Blvd
Chatsworth, CA   91311
(818) 998-0490

	The format of this file is SMF 1.  The original format for
this song is Edit Track II, on the Atari ST, but nothing is
sacrificed for the SMF version.

	Download MIDIMOVR.ARC from GEnie, and use it to
import this file into EZ-Track+ or Edit Track.  MIDIMOVR is "freeware"
provided by the makers of EZ-Track+ and Edit Track (Hybrid Arts.)
Not only does it play any SMF 0 or SMF 1 file, but it plays EZ-Track+
files, and even Midi-Track files!


OXYGENE 4 by Jean-Michel Jarre (version b)

	This file represents a greatly upgraded version my
original upload.  I fixed the ending quite a bit -- although it
is still not perfect, it is much easier to listen to.  I also
shifted most of the bass line earlier in time by 64 ticks, to
make in sound more in synchrony with the melody; some parts
were already perfect, and I exempted them from the delay.
I added to the wind and noise track, and made the latter parts
of this track sound in tune with the melody, since I had to
allocate the same channel to a pitched sound source.
Finally, I rearranged the patching for two keyboards:
the Casio HT-700 on channels 5-7, and the MT-240 on channels
1-4.  I believe that the conversion to SMF does not preserve
transposition of the drum tracks, so follow the guide below
if you use an MT-240 as a percussion source.  Oh, I fixed
the note-names below.  They were off an octave!

	I had no score for this well-known bit of sequencing
by the French electronic musician.  I simply listened to each
section of the song a hundred times or so, writing the passages
down on stave paper, and reworking the sections until it sounded
right.  The song consists entirely of triplets (three notes played
in the duration of one quarter note).

	Drum information is included.  I recorded the percussion as notes,
and chose the pitches of the notes so that the percussion would
sound good as notes, on a synth that has no drums.  Those
lucky enough to have drums can manually transpose these tracks
to the proper percussion voices on their own machines.  The
drum tracks are as follows (I use cymbals in lieu of brushes):

[Note for the SMF 1 version:  the transpositions noted below were
automatically performed when converting to SMF.  I did not bother
changing the track labels to suit, however.  Still, the labels do
tell one the original notes, if that's important.]
								MT-240
	Track#	Name		Note		MIDI value	Transpose
	
	   7	Finger Snap	C3 (middle C)	60 decimal	flat 15
	   8	Brush 1		G1		43		sharp 19
	   9	Brush 2		F2		53		sharp 5
	  10	Brush 3		C2		48		sharp 4
	  11	Wind & Noise	C1 etc.		36		sharp 24
	  12	Premature Bonk	C3		60		flat 12
	
	You gotta have the "Finger Snap".  It isn't "Oxygene 4"
without the "Finger Snap".  I don't have it, just the rim shot.

	Let's quickly discuss the rest of the tracks, and
what can be done with them.

	Track#	Name		Notes
	
	   1	Bass Triplets	Main bass line
	   2	Tuned "Bonk"	A 1-2-3 1-2 pattern for bass use
	   3	Bass Reiterator A constant triplet pattern for bass
	   4	Horn Melody	The main melody
	   5	Strings		A sub-plot of the main melody
	   6	Filter Sweep	2-note line to provide chords

	  13	HT700 Ptch 4-1	HT-700 Patching for track 4
	  14	HT700 Ptch 2,3-2  HT-700 Patch to set tracks 2 & 3.
	  15	Chris Ahlstrom	An extra (transposed) main melody
	  16	GEnie:KICKAHA	A little treat (try it!)
	  17	On the Atari ST	A little transposed treat.
	  18	MT-240 Patch	Affects channels 1-3; 2==rhythm
	  19	Strings		Transposed copy of track 5
	  20	Bass Triplets	Main baseline, sharp one octave.

	The bass tracks (1-3) are simple.  One problem I had, though,
was that tracks 2 and 3 are a bit softer in the original.  I could
not assign overall levels using EZ-Track+, and I was too lazy to
make guesses of velocity to edit in with Edit Track.  As a result,
the MIDI version sounds more energetic, and the laid-back feel of
the original is lost.

	The "Horn Melody" actually changes voices a few times.
The HT-700 patch track (13) makes changes *roughly* analogous to
the original.  In Jarre's recording, each voice is effectively
a different track.  In mine, they're all on the same track, to
make it easier to use with cheap synths.  Track 15 is a transposed
copy of track 13.

	I tried to stick closely to the improvised melody near
the end of the song.  I wasn't perfect on this, but did make
sure that my version sounded good [hah!].  Anyone who wants to tape this
song will have to manually do a decrescendo near the end of the
song.  I have no way of fading out near the end of the song.

	"Strings" is a sub-melody that comes into play at times.

	"Filter Sweep" departs a bit from Jarre's recording.
In the background, he plays a sound with a slow filter sweep
(say "wow" slowly to get the idea).  I couldn't determine if it
was 1, 2, or 3 notes.  I tried a 3-note track, but one of the chords
was impossible to make sound correctly, so I dropped a note, and went
with two notes.  Seems to work the best.  Tracks 16 and 17 are the
three-note chords.  You might try to replicate them, and verify
for yourself that the second chord generates too much dissonance when
combined with the melody.  Perhaps it works better at the softer
sound levels in the original.

THANKS!

	Robert Geiger (GEnie: RG.Alaska) was kind enough to make
a tape of this song and send it to me.  He did a great job, and
made my month.  I have yet to pay him back in some way.

	He also included some nice songs of his own.